# this is read13 from 201
# local storage:
s one of the areas where native client applications have held an advantage over web applications. For native applications, the operating system typically provides an abstraction layer for storing and retrieving application-specific data like preferences or runtime state. These values may be stored in the registry, INI files, XML files, or some other place according to platform convention.Historically, web applications have had none of these luxuries. Cookies were invented early in the web’s history, and indeed they can be used for persistent local storage of small amounts of data. But they have three potentially dealbreaking downsides:
  1. Cookies are included with every HTTP request, thereby slowing down your web application by needlessly transmitting the same data over and over.
  2. Cookies are included with every HTTP request, thereby sending data unencrypted over the internet (unless your entire web application is served over SSL).
  3. Cookies are limited to about 4 KB of data — enough to slow down your application, but not enough to be terribly useful.
What we really want is :
 * a lot of storage space.
 *  the client  
 * that persists beyond a page refresh.
 * and isn’t transmitted to the server.

# A BRIEF HISTORY OF LOCAL STORAGE HACKS BEFORE HTML5 :
userData allows web pages to store up to 64 KB of data per domain, in a hierarchical XML-based structure. (Trusted domains, such as intranet sites, can store 10 times that amount. And hey, 640 KB ought to be enough for anybody.) IE does not present any form of permissions dialog, and there is no allowance for increasing the amount of storage available.

# INTRODUCING HTML5 STORAGE :
“HTML5 Storage” is a specification named Web Storage, which was at one time part of the HTML5 specification proper, but was split out into its own specification for uninteresting political reasons. Certain browser vendors also refer to it as “Local Storage” or “DOM Storage.” The naming situation is made even more complicated by some related, similarly-named.
 HTML5 Storage :it’s a way for web pages to store named key/value pairs locally, within the client web browser. Like cookies, this data persists even after you navigate away from the web site, close your browser tab, exit your browser, or what have you. Unlike cookies, this data is never transmitted to the remote web server (unless you go out of your way to send it manually). Unlike all previous attempts at providing persistent local storage, it is implemented natively in web browsers, so it is available even when third-party browser plugins are not.

 # USING HTML5 STORAGE :
 is based on named key/value pairs. You store data based on a named key, then you can retrieve that data with the same key. The named key is a string. The data can be any type supported by JavaScript, including strings, Booleans, integers, or floats. However, the data is actually stored as a string. If you are storing and retrieving anything other than strings, you will need to use functions like parseInt() or parseFloat() to coerce your retrieved data into the expected JavaScript datatype.

# TRACKING CHANGES TO THE HTML5 STORAGE AREA :
f you want to keep track programmatically of when the storage area changes, you can trap the storage event. The storage event is fired on the window object whenever setItem(), removeItem(), or clear() is called and actually changes something. For example, if you set an item to its existing value or call clear() when there are no named keys, the storage event will not fire, because nothing actually changed in the storage area. The storage event is supported everywhere the localStorage object is supported, which includes Internet Explorer 8. IE 8 does not support the W3C standard addEventListener (although that will finally be added in IE 9). Therefore, to hook the storage event, you’ll need to check which event mechanism the browser supports. (If you’ve done this before with other events, you can skip to the end of this section. Trapping the storage event works the same as every other event you’ve ever trapped.

# HTML5 STORAGE IN ACTION :
There’s a small problem with the game: if you close the browser window mid-game, you’ll lose your progress. But with HTML5 Storage, we can save the progress locally, within the browser itself. Here is a live demonstration. Make a few moves, then close the browser tab, then re-open it. If your browser supports HTML5 Storage, the demonstration page should magically remember your exact position within the game, including the number of moves you’ve made, the position of each of the pieces on the board, and even whether a particular piece is selected.it uses the localStorage object to save whether there is a game in progress (gGameInProgress, a Boolean). If so, it iterates through the pieces (gPieces, a JavaScript Array) and saves the row and column number of each piece. Then it saves some additional game state, including which piece is selected (gSelectedPieceIndex, an integer), whether the piece is in the middle of a potentially long series of hops (gSelectedPieceHasMoved, a Boolean), and the total number of moves made so far (gMoveCount, an integer).On page load, instead of automatically calling a newGame() function that would reset these variables to hard-coded values, we call a resumeGame() function instead. Using HTML5 Storage, the resumeGame() function checks whether a state about a game-in-progress is stored locally. If so, it restores those values using the localStorage object.

# BEYOND NAMED KEY-VALUE PAIRS: COMPETING VISIONS :
A new API has been standardized and implemented across all major browsers, platforms, and devices. As a web developer, that’s just not something you see every day, is it? But there is more to life than “5 megabytes of named key/value pairs,” and the future of persistent local storage is… how shall I put it… well, there are competing visions.One vision is an acronym that you probably know already: SQL. In 2007, Google launched Gears, an open source cross-browser plugin which included an embedded database based on SQLite. This early prototype later influenced the creation of the Web SQL Database specification. Web SQL Database (formerly known as “WebDB”) provides a thin wrapper around a SQL database.



